IsoComp/README.md, before:

# IsoEvaluation
## Comparison of ISO with JUM, majiq, leafcutter in Flux simulated data

#CHOP Folder location
    
    /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation

#Run rMATS-ISO 
        
    ls /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/simu_reads/*.bam > simu_input.list
    list=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/simu_input.list
    gtf=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/Annotation/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.87.new.gtf
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rMATS-ISO/rMATS-ISO.py module --gtf $gtf --bam $list -o iso_simu_output/ >iso_log.txt 2>iso_log_error.txt
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rMATS-ISO/rMATS-ISO.py stat --bam $list -o iso_simu_output/ >iso_stat_log.txt 2>iso_stat_log_error.txt
    
#Run rMATS 
  
    GTF=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/Annotation/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.87.new.gtf
    TMP=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/rMATS-ISO_Flux_Simulation/tmp
    OD=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/rMATS-ISO_Flux_Simulation/od
    BAM=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rmats_pipeline/rmats.py --b1 $BAM/bam1.list --b2 $BAM/bam2.list --gtf $GTF --od $OD -t paired --readLength 76 --cstat 0.0001 --libType fr-unstranded

#Run leafcutter

    conda activate turbo
    #Convert bam to junction files
    export PATH=$PATH:/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/
    if [ -e test_juncfiles.txt ]; then rm test_juncfiles.txt; fi
    for bamfile in `ls simu_reads/*.bam`; do
        echo Converting $bamfile to $bamfile.junc
        sh /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/bam2junc.sh $bamfile $bamfile.junc
        echo $bamfile.junc >> test_juncfiles.txt
    done
    # Finds intron clusters and quantifies junction usage within them.
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/clustering/leafcutter_cluster.py -j test_juncfiles.txt -m 50 -o leafcutter_output -l 500000
    # Differential splicing analysis.
    /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/leafcutter_ds.R --num_threads 4 leafcutter_output/leafcutter_output_perind_numers.counts.gz simu_reads/groups_file.txt -i 3
    
#Run JUM

    qsub -pe smp 3 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-6:1 jum_star.sh
    ./jum_star_clean.sh
    qsub -pe smp 3 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-6:1 jum_star_2ndpass.sh
    ./jum_star_2ndpass_clean.sh
    qsub -pe smp 1 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-1:1 jum.sh

#Run majiq

    majiq build ensembl.hg19.gff3 -c settings.ini -j 1 -o output/
    majiq psi output/PC3E-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -j 2 -o output/ -n g
    majiq deltapsi -grp1 output/PC3E-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -grp2 output/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -j 2 -o output/ -n pc3e gs689 --default-prior
    voila deltapsi output/pc3e_gs689.deltapsi.voila -s output/splicegraph.sql -o output/
    
#Calculate true psi for ISO modules from Flux simulation parameters

    cd /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/truepsi_iso
    qsub -pe smp 1 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-3:1 GSpsiFromPro.sh

#Match turbo, ISO, majiq, leafcutter and jum

    #match the ISO and rMATS results in the simulation data
    #this has the min rMATS p value of the module
    python findASM.py events.txt eventsp.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2SE.112319.txt

    #match the ISO and majiq results in the simulation data
    python findASM_majiq.py events_majiq.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2majiq.102218.txt

    #match the ISO and leafcutter results in the simulation data
    python findASM_leafcutter.py events_leafcutter.txt eventsp_leafcutter.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2leafcutter.102218.txt

    #match the ISO and leafcutter results in the simulation data
    python findASM_jum.py events_jum.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2jum.102218.txt

#Roc

    Rscript roc.R

![alt text](https://github.com/shihaoshen/IsoEvaluation/blob/master/IsoComp/rMATS_ISO_Flux_roc.png)

Commit message:

Require the total read counts of all isoforms that are averaged among the replicates to be greater than 10

IsoComp/README.md, after:

# IsoEvaluation
## Comparison of ISO with JUM, majiq, leafcutter in Flux simulated data

#CHOP Folder location
    
    /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation

#Run rMATS-ISO 
        
    ls /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/simu_reads/*.bam > simu_input.list
    list=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/simu_input.list
    gtf=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/Annotation/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.87.new.gtf
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rMATS-ISO/rMATS-ISO.py module --gtf $gtf --bam $list -o iso_simu_output/ >iso_log.txt 2>iso_log_error.txt
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rMATS-ISO/rMATS-ISO.py stat --bam $list -o iso_simu_output/ >iso_stat_log.txt 2>iso_stat_log_error.txt
    
#Run rMATS 
  
    GTF=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/Annotation/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.87.new.gtf
    TMP=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/rMATS-ISO_Flux_Simulation/tmp
    OD=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/rMATS-ISO_Flux_Simulation/od
    BAM=/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/rMATS-iso-bak/Simulation/
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/rmats_pipeline/rmats.py --b1 $BAM/bam1.list --b2 $BAM/bam2.list --gtf $GTF --od $OD -t paired --readLength 76 --cstat 0.0001 --libType fr-unstranded

#Run leafcutter

    conda activate turbo
    #Convert bam to junction files
    export PATH=$PATH:/mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/
    if [ -e test_juncfiles.txt ]; then rm test_juncfiles.txt; fi
    for bamfile in `ls simu_reads/*.bam`; do
        echo Converting $bamfile to $bamfile.junc
        sh /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/bam2junc.sh $bamfile $bamfile.junc
        echo $bamfile.junc >> test_juncfiles.txt
    done
    # Finds intron clusters and quantifies junction usage within them.
    python /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/clustering/leafcutter_cluster.py -j test_juncfiles.txt -m 50 -o leafcutter_output -l 500000
    # Differential splicing analysis.
    /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/bin/github/leafcutter/scripts/leafcutter_ds.R --num_threads 4 leafcutter_output/leafcutter_output_perind_numers.counts.gz simu_reads/groups_file.txt -i 3
    
#Run JUM

    qsub -pe smp 3 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-6:1 jum_star.sh
    ./jum_star_clean.sh
    qsub -pe smp 3 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-6:1 jum_star_2ndpass.sh
    ./jum_star_2ndpass_clean.sh
    qsub -pe smp 1 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-1:1 jum.sh

#Run majiq

    majiq build ensembl.hg19.gff3 -c settings.ini -j 1 -o output/
    majiq psi output/PC3E-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -j 2 -o output/ -n g
    majiq deltapsi -grp1 output/PC3E-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/PC3E-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -grp2 output/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-2_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq output/GS689.LI-3_STARAligned.out.sort.majiq -j 2 -o output/ -n pc3e gs689 --default-prior
    voila deltapsi output/pc3e_gs689.deltapsi.voila -s output/splicegraph.sql -o output/
    
#Calculate true psi for ISO modules from Flux simulation parameters
#Revision 02/07/19: Require the total read counts of all isoforms that are averaged among the replicates to be greater than 10

    cd /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/truepsi_iso
    qsub -pe smp 1 -l h_vmem=20G -l m_mem_free=20G -t 1-3:1 GSpsiFromPro.sh
    python isopsidiff.py isopsidiff.txt

#Match turbo, ISO, majiq, leafcutter and jum

    #match the ISO and rMATS results in the simulation data
    #this has the min rMATS p value of the module
    python findASM.py events.txt eventsp.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2SE.112319.txt

    #match the ISO and majiq results in the simulation data
    python findASM_majiq.py events_majiq.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2majiq.102218.txt

    #match the ISO and leafcutter results in the simulation data
    python findASM_leafcutter.py events_leafcutter.txt eventsp_leafcutter.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2leafcutter.102218.txt

    #match the ISO and leafcutter results in the simulation data
    python findASM_jum.py events_jum.txt /mnt/isilon/xing_lab/shens/ISO_ReRun/Simulation/iso_simu_output/ISO_module/GS689.LI-1_STARAligned.out.sort.bam.IsoExon ASM2jum.102218.txt

#Roc

    Rscript roc.R

![alt text](https://github.com/shihaoshen/IsoEvaluation/blob/master/IsoComp/rMATS_ISO_Flux_roc.png)
